blog: buying github stars (#1236)
the-guild-org/website: website/pages/blog/judging-open-source-by-github-stars.mdx

---
title: Judging Open Source by Github Stars
tags: [open-source]

> authors: yassin

Author: not sure about how this works, what should I type here? and how it gets map to my fullname and profile picture? 🤔

Reviewer: There's an `authors` file where you can add your info

Reviewer: And then, the key should map to what you type here. Ie you should add `yassin` to the `authors` object

date: 2023-05-09
description: Exposing the dark side of open source projects

> image: /blog-assets/announcing-free-single-sign-on-for-graphql-hive/cover.png

Author: ```suggestion
I'm not sure how you generate those thumbnails and cover pictures 🤔 
```

> thumbnail: /blog-assets/announcing-free-single-sign-on-for-graphql-hive/thumbnail.png

Author: I'm not sure how you generate those thumbnails and cover pictures 🤔

Reviewer: Figma! 😁 will send you a link on Slack

---

> The most obvious and the best way to judge an open source project is to just look at the code but

Author: ```suggestion
The best and most obvious way to judge an open source project is to just look at the code but
```

this can be kind of tedious and sometimes you don't like what you see there, so an alternative that
we have all naturally developed on our own or have been advised to, is to see how many people have
starred a project, and then pick the one with the most stars.

> "For example, React.js has 207K stars compared to Angular's measly 63K stars, so we can conclude

Author: ```suggestion
"For example, React.js has 207K stars compared to Angular's measly 88K stars, so we can conclude
```

> that react.js is a better framework" — [Ben Awad](https://youtu.be/MT6M_sqAuZo?t=243)

Reviewer 2: 💯 🤣

this will be your first encounter with this bizarre market.

## Buying GitHub Stars

Yep! That's a thing. Just as purchasing Instagram likes is a genuine phenomenon, buying GitHub stars
is equally tangible.

![Buy instagram likes poster](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/buy-instagram-likes.png)

---

But, I won't just tell you that buying GitHub stars is real, and move on, that would be so
disappointing, right?

So I did it! I have tried 2 platforms, I won't say any names or links, as I would never advocate for
such a thing.

I thought it's gonna be a really interesting experiment (definitely not for my wallet), and a very
educational one, So let's dive into it!

#### Premium Stars

Bear with me, I know what you're thinking: "what the hell?! There are types??!" Yes, there are!

Premium Stars are the kind of stars that are much more expensive, the most legit looking fakes, and
most importantly the ones who have a higher chance of staying over the long-term.

So I put on Incognito mode and started hunting using my second identity "Boogeyman".

![Premium Stars Reciept](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/premium-stars-reciept.png)

> And so it costed me 20 Euros for 25 stars which is €0.8/star, it's expensive, but I'm gonna show you

Author: ```suggestion
And so it costed me 20 Euros for 25 stars which is €0.8/star, it's expensive (not if you deducted it from your taxes), but I'm gonna show you
```

Author: @Urigo @dotansimha @n1ru4l is it possible to add this? 🤣

Reviewer 3: sure :)

Author: hahahaha, YES!!!

how they look like in a minute.

It took 6 hours for my order to complete, and the accounts look really legit, each has a profile
picture, different companies that they work for, a couple of repositories, and a contribution to one or
more open source project, next to being a GitHub member for over a year.

![Premium Stargazers On Github](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/premium-stargazers-on-github.png)

#### Cheap Stars

"Whenever you see premium goods, remember, the bargain bin isn't far behind!" — Probably me

While the above works, there are definitely much cheaper ones like this:

![Cheap Stars Reciept](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cheap-stars-reciept.png)

Where it costed me 8.19 Euros for 100 stars which is €0.08/star.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

As you can see from the receipt, my order is number #57189, so it's definitely not something that's used every once in a while 🙂.

```

What's crazy is, you can reach out and they are gonna redo your order for free 🙂

### Detecting Fake Stars

Then I wondered if there's any tools that can expose those repositories 🤔

And I discovered [Astronomer](https://github.com/Ullaakut/astronomer), a tool to detect illegitimate
stars from bot accounts on GitHub projects.

It works by fetching data from every GitHub user who starred a common repository and computes how
likely it is that those users are real humans, it works using what they call "Trust algorithm".

Trust is computed based on many different factors:

- The average amount of lifetime contributions among stargazers
- The average amount of private contributions
- The average amount of public created issues
- The average amount of public authored commits
- The average amount of public opened pull requests
- The average amount of public code reviews
- The average weighted contribution score (weighted by making older contributions more trustworthy)
- Every 5th percentile, from 5 to 95, of the weighted contribution score
- The average account age, older is more trustworthy

> So, I've tried on 3 different repositories to see the results.

Author: ```suggestion
So, I've tried Astronomer on 3 different repositories to see the results.
```

30th percentile:                     13650             A
35th percentile:                     20728             A
40th percentile:                     23322             A
45th percentile:                     28244             A
50th percentile:                     37636             A
55th percentile:                     42536             A
60th percentile:                     55776             A
65th percentile:                     78956             A
70th percentile:                     93676             A
75th percentile:                     129164            A
80th percentile:                     194463            A
85th percentile:                     231380            A
90th percentile:                     286798            A
95th percentile:                     559934            A
----------------------------------------------------------
Overall trust:                                         A
```

So, that's scary. The premium stars scored pretty decently as a `B`, but the cheap ones scored an
`E` which is the worst, but who knows, maybe there's an ultra premium stars service that's scoring
an `A`.

## Learned Lessons

> Don't judge open source by the number of stargazers, because they can easily and quite affordably be

Author: ```suggestion
Don't judge a book by its cover, or in this context, Don't judge open source by the number of stargazers, because they can easily and quite affordably be
```

fake. It's like any other social media platform, where fake accounts exist.

Instead, ask coworkers, Twitter, or even open a github issue asking why should you use this project
and not the other ones, I'm sure you can gather pretty good answers from multiple projects proving
what they excel at. Or the best of course is reviewing the code concisely, though I know that
normally on a daily basis, we don't often have the time and energy to do that.

> Star legit good open source projects like
> [GraphQL Hive](https://github.com/kamilkisiela/graphql-hive), it has 200-ish stars, but you're
> missing out on an already incredibly successful project, we and you don't need 10K stars to have a
> successful open source project.

Author: ```suggestion
Checkout legit good open source projects like
[GraphQL Hive](https://github.com/kamilkisiela/graphql-hive), it has 200-ish stars, but you're
missing out on an already incredibly successful project, we and you don't need 10K stars to have a
successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star.
```

> Checkout legit good open source projects like
> [GraphQL Hive](https://github.com/kamilkisiela/graphql-hive), it has 200-ish stars, but you're
> missing out on an already incredibly successful project, we and you don't need 10K stars to have a
> successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star.

Author: ```suggestion
Checkout legit good open source projects like
[GraphQL Hive](https://github.com/kamilkisiela/graphql-hive), it has 200-ish stars, but you're
missing out on an already incredibly successful project, we and you don't need 10K stars to have a
successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star if you really like it 😉.
```

---

> title: Judging Open Source by Github Stars

Reviewer 3: should we get a more spicy title?
I think about a good title to go on HackerNews...

> title: Judging Open Source by Github Stars

Author: ```suggestion
title: Exposing the hidden dark secrets of viral Open Source projects
```

tags: [open-source]
authors: yassin
date: 2023-05-09
description: Exposing the dark side of GitHub and open source projects
image: /blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cover.png
thumbnail: /blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/thumbnail.png
---

> The best and most obvious way to judge an open-source project is to look at the code but this
> can be kind of tedious and sometimes you don't like what you see there, so an alternative that we
> have all naturally developed on our own or have been advised to, is to see how many people have
> starred a project, and then pick the one with the most stars.

Author: ```suggestion
How to judge an open-source project?

The best way to judge an open-source project is by looking directly at the code, but this can be kind of tedious, and sometimes you don't like what you see there.

So, an alternative that we have all naturally developed on our own or have been advised to, is to see how many people have starred a project, and then pick the one with the most stars.
```

"For example, React.js has 207K stars compared to Angular's measly 88K stars, so we can conclude
that react.js is a better framework" — [Ben Awad](https://youtu.be/MT6M_sqAuZo?t=243)

While the above is a joke (not that React isn't a better frontend framework), It is not a good idea
to judge the quality of an open source project by how many stars does it have.

How many times have you gazed upon an open source project, and wondered fabulously about the
correlation between the number of stars garnered and the actual value of the project?

If it's zero, then ok, you're a better person than me.

But if not, then allow me to introduce you to my recent experiments and research. It's likely that
this will be your first encounter with this bizarre market.

## Buying GitHub Stars

Yep! That's a thing. Just as purchasing Instagram likes is a genuine phenomenon, buying GitHub stars
is equally tangible.

> ![Buy instagram likes poster](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/buy-instagram-likes.png)

Author: too flashy to be honest, what do you think?

---

But, I won't just tell you that buying GitHub stars is real, and move on, that would be so
disappointing, right?

So I did it! I have tried 2 platforms, I won't say any names or links, as I would never advocate for

> such a thing.

Reviewer 3: shouldn't we really?
I mean, its not necessarily advocating but more exposing...

Author: I guess yeah, I wasn't sure if it was gonna do more harm than good 🤷‍♂️

I thought it's gonna be a really interesting experiment (definitely not for my wallet), and a very
educational one, So let's dive into it!

#### Premium Stars

Bear with me, I know what you're thinking: "what the hell?! There are types??!" Yes, there are!

Premium Stars are the kind of stars that are much more expensive, the most legit looking fakes, and
most importantly the ones who have a higher chance of staying over the long-term.

So I put on Incognito mode and started hunting using my second identity "Boogeyman".

![Premium Stars Reciept](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/premium-stars-reciept.png)

> And so it costed me 20 Euros for 25 stars which is €0.8/star, it's expensive, but I'm gonna show you

Author: ```suggestion
And it costed me 20 Euros for 25 stars which is €0.8/star. It's expensive, but I'm gonna show you
```

---
title: Judging Open Source by Github Stars
tags: [open-source]
authors: yassin
date: 2023-05-09
description: Exposing the dark side of GitHub and open source projects
image: /blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cover.png
thumbnail: /blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/thumbnail.png
---

The best and most obvious way to judge an open source project is to just look at the code but this
can be kind of tedious and sometimes you don't like what you see there, so an alternative that we
have all naturally developed on our own or have been advised to, is to see how many people have

> starred a project, and then pick the one with the most stars.

Reviewer 3: maybe I would phrase it as a question - when you go to check about an open source project, what are the ways of doing so?
then list them

> starred a project, and then pick the one with the most stars.

Author: yeah, that does sound like a better approach!

picture, different companies that they work for, a couple of repositories, and a contribution to one
or more open source project, next to being a GitHub member for over a year.

![Premium Stargazers On Github](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/premium-stargazers-on-github.png)

#### Cheap Stars

"Whenever you see premium goods, remember, the bargain bin isn't far behind!" — Probably me

While the above works, there are definitely much cheaper ones like this:

![Cheap Stars Reciept](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cheap-stars-reciept.png)

Where it costed me 8.19 Euros for 100 stars which is €0.08/star.

As you can see from the receipt, my order is number #57189, so it's definitely not something that's
used every once in a while 🙂.

Now what is the difference?

Well, the biggest one is that the accounts were just made at the time of your order, they don't have
any fake personal information nor repositories or contributions.

And after a month, they were all gone. GitHub detected them and banned them.

![Cheap Stars on March](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cheap-github-stars-march.png)

> ![Cheap Stars on May](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cheap-github-stars-march.png)

Author: ```suggestion
![Cheap Stars on May](/blog-assets/judging-open-source-by-github-stars/cheap-github-stars-may.png)
```

30th percentile:                     13650             A
35th percentile:                     20728             A
40th percentile:                     23322             A
45th percentile:                     28244             A
50th percentile:                     37636             A
55th percentile:                     42536             A
60th percentile:                     55776             A
65th percentile:                     78956             A
70th percentile:                     93676             A
75th percentile:                     129164            A
80th percentile:                     194463            A
85th percentile:                     231380            A
90th percentile:                     286798            A
95th percentile:                     559934            A
----------------------------------------------------------
Overall trust:                                         A
```

So, that's scary. The premium stars scored pretty decently as a `B`, but the cheap ones scored an
`E` which is the worst, but who knows, maybe there's an ultra premium stars service that's scoring
an `A`.

## Learned Lessons

> Don't judge a book by its cover, or in this context, Don't judge open source by the number of
> stargazers, because they can easily and quite affordably be fake. It's like any other social media
> platform, where fake accounts exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you shouldn't judge a book by its cover, you shouldn't judge an open-source project by the number of
stargazers. As we saw in this article, this is an option that they are not legitimate. It's like any other social media
platform where fake accounts and fake likes exist.
```

Instead, ask coworkers, Twitter, or even open a github issue asking why should you use this project
and not the other ones, I'm sure you can gather pretty good answers from multiple projects proving
what they excel at. Or the best of course is reviewing the code concisely, though I know that
normally on a daily basis, we don't often have the time and energy to do that.

Checkout legit good open source projects like
[GraphQL Hive](https://github.com/kamilkisiela/graphql-hive), it has 200-ish stars, but you're
missing out on an already incredibly successful project, we and you don't need 10K stars to have a

> successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star if you really like it 😉.

Author: 🤣

> successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star if you really like it 😉.

Reviewer 3: yep agree with @beerose

> successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star if you really like it 😉.

Reviewer 3: I would maybe add some text about how to actually choose a good open source project and maybe talk a bit about how The Guild does it (long term, sustainable, other ideas from everyone at The Guild)
maybe even some ideas from here: https://the-guild.dev/about-us

> successful open source project, but we will gladly accept your star if you really like it 😉.

Author: oh, interesting 👀

> Well, there you have it. Got some seed money for your next startup? Throw it into building truly
> valuable projects. Now that's an investment you won't regret. 😉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Got some seed money for your next startup, and you wonder how to spend them? Throw it into building truly
worthwhile projects. That's an investment you won't regret. 😉
```

---

> title: How much are GitHub Stars worth to You?

Author: ```suggestion
title: How Much Are GitHub Stars Worth to You?
```

> title: Exposing the dark secret of Viral Open Source Projects

Author: ```suggestion
title: Judging Open Source by Github Stars
```

> title: Exposing the dark secrets of Viral Open Source Projects

Author: ```suggestion
title: Exposing the dark secret of Viral Open Source Projects
```

> title: Exposing the hidden dark secrets of Viral Open Source Projects

Author: ```suggestion
title: Exposing the dark secrets of Viral Open Source Projects
```

---
title: How much are GitHub Stars worth to You?
tags: [open-source]
authors: yassin

> date: 2023-05-09

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-06-01
```
